---
jupytext:
  notebook_metadata_filter: -all,kernelspec,jupytext
  cell_metadata_filter: all,-trusted
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.19.4
kernelspec:
  name: python3
  display_name: Python 3 (ipykernel)
  language: python
---

# PACE Science Data Reprocessing Version 3.2 Updates

**Authors:** Anna Windle (NASA, SSAI), Ian Carroll (NASA, UMBC)

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">

The following notebooks are **prerequisites** for this tutorial.

- Learn with OCI: [Data Access](oci-data-access)

</div>

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">

An [Earthdata Login][edl] account is required to access data from the NASA Earthdata system, including NASA ocean color data.

</div>

[edl]: https://urs.earthdata.nasa.gov/

## Summary

Satellite data are periodically [reprocessed](https://oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov/data/reprocessing/) to incorporate improvements in sensor calibration, atmospheric correction, retrieval algorithms, and ancillary datasets, as well as to correct known processing issues. Reprocessing produces a more accurate and internally consistent data record, ensuring that changes over time reflect real environmental variability rather than differences in processing methods.

The initial public release of PACE science data products (**Version 1**) began on 11 April 2024,
and provided the science and applications user community with access to the Level-1 data
and a limited suite of derived products from the OCI, HARP2, and SPEXone instruments,
with the caveat that the data were in a highly preliminary state and should be used with
caution. Reprocessing **Version 2** was the first full mission reprocessing, and primarily
served to incorporate improved calibration knowledge from on-orbit measurements
collected by the three PACE instruments. Reprocessing **Version 3** included a further
refinement of the calibration for the three instruments, as well as various algorithm
refinements, bug fixes, data format improvements, and expanded product suites. 

In April 2026, PACE OCI **Version 3.2** was released. This reprocessing primarily corrected an implementation error in the bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) correction applied to spectral remote-sensing reflectance (Rrs), and also included updated vicarious calibration and several minor processing improvements. The NetCDF file structure was also updated as part of this release.

**This tutorial highlights the key file structure changes introduced in Version 3.2 and demonstrates how to update existing workflows developed for Version 3.1. As Version 3.1 data are phased out, these approaches will become the standard for accessing and analyzing PACE OCI data. Future reprocessing campaigns, including Version 4, are expected to introduce additional file structure changes, which will be communicated to the PACE user community.**


## Learning Objectives

At the end of this notebook you will know:

- The differences in OCI L2 file structure between Version 3.1 and 3.2
- How to open v3.1 and v3.2 data with `xarray`
- Updates to OCI v3.2 L3M file names
- Status of PACE OCI land data products

+++

## 1. Setup

+++

Begin by importing all of the packages used in this notebook. If you followed the guidance on the [Getting-Started](/getting-started) page, then the imports will be successful.

```{code-cell} ipython3
import earthaccess
import xarray as xr
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
auth = earthaccess.login(persist=True)
```

## 2. Access and open OCI L2 v3.1 and v3.2 AOP data

```{code-cell} ipython3
v3_1_results = earthaccess.search_data(
    short_name="PACE_OCI_L2_AOP",
    version='3.1',
    point=(36.97, -75.74),
    count=1)

v3_2_results = earthaccess.search_data(
    short_name="PACE_OCI_L2_AOP",
    version='3.2',
    point=(36.97, -75.74),
    count=1)
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
v3_1_paths = earthaccess.open(v3_1_results)
v3_2_paths = earthaccess.open(v3_2_results)
```

You can see some differences in the `xarray` DataTrees:

```{code-cell} ipython3
v3_1_datatree = xr.open_datatree(v3_1_paths[0])
v3_1_datatree
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
v3_2_datatree = xr.open_datatree(v3_2_paths[0])
v3_2_datatree
```

In Version 3.1, the `geophysical_data` group does not include `wavelength` as a coordinate. In Version 3.2, `wavelength` was added as a coordinate, making it easier to select and work with spectrally resolved variables using packages such as `xarray`.

In Version 3.1, the `sensor_band_parameters` group contains a `wavelegnth_3d` coordiante. So, we can merge the groups, and use this coordinate for the `geophysical_data` group. We can also set the lat, lon variables as coordinates for mapping.

```{code-cell} ipython3
v3_1_dataset = xr.merge(v3_1_datatree.to_dict().values())
v3_1_dataset = v3_1_dataset.set_coords(("longitude", "latitude"))
v3_1_dataset
```

Now we can easily select an Rrs wavelength using the `wavelength_3d` coordinate:

```{code-cell} ipython3
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8, 6))

data = v3_1_dataset["Rrs"].sel({"wavelength_3d": 500})
data.plot(
    ax=ax,
    x="longitude",
    y="latitude",
    vmin=0,
    vmax=0.008,
    cbar_kwargs={"label": "Rrs ($sr^{-1}$)"})
```

For Version 3.2, we no longer need to merge the groups since the `geophysical_data` group contains a `wavelength` coordinate. We can add lat,lon coordinates from the `navigation_data` group.

```{code-cell} ipython3
v3_2_dataset = v3_2_datatree["geophysical_data"]["Rrs"]
for item in ("longitude", "latitude"):
    v3_2_dataset[item] = v3_2_datatree["navigation_data"][item]
v3_2_dataset
```

And plot an Rrs wavelength using the `wavelength_3d` coordinate:

```{code-cell} ipython3
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8, 6))

data = v3_2_dataset.sel({"wavelength": 500}, method="nearest")
data.plot(
    ax=ax,
    x="longitude",
    y="latitude",
    vmin=0,
    vmax=0.008,
    cbar_kwargs={"label": "Rrs ($sr^{-1}$)"})
```

Note that the Version 3.1 `wavelength_3d` coordinate contains rounded integer wavelength values, whereas the Version 3.2 `wavelength` coordinate retains the full floating-point values. As a result, the wavelength coordinates will differ slightly between the two versions.

+++

## 3. OCI L3m Filename Changes

In the [PACE OCI V3 Reprocessing Release Notes](https://oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov/files/data/reprocessing/V3/PACE_OCI_V3_Release_Notes.pdf), it states *"All Level-2 products from the OC_AOP suite are now consolidated into one Level-3 mapped product called AOP. Previously RRS, nFLH, AVW, etc. were distributed as separate Level-3 mapped products."*

This caused the NASA Earthdata CMR `short_names` to change. PACE OCI L3m Version 3.2 `short_names` are:
- `PACE_OCI_L3M_AOP`
- `PACE_OCI_L3M_IOP`
- `PACE_OCI_L3M_BGC`
- `PACE_OCI_L3M_KD`
- `PACE_OCI_L3M_PAR`

`PACE_OCI_L3M_CHL`, `PACE_OCI_L3M_RRS`, `PACE_OCI_L3M_AVW`, `PACE_OCI_L3M_FLH`, `PACE_OCI_L3M_CARBON` will no longer work with Version 3.2 data.  

+++

# 4. Status of OCI Surface Reflectance (SRFEFL) and Land Surface Indices (LANDVI) data products

L2 and L3m SRFEFL and LANDVI products are currently still in Version 3.1 because ______

```{code-cell} ipython3

```
